>> Sarah Drasner: Performance,
not all things are created equal.
You shouldn't be animating with margin,
left, top,
things like that because they
cause repaints in the browser.
Transforms are really what you
should be using to animate and
change positions for SVG, but not just
SVG, everything, divs, everything.
You should also try to hardware
accelerate where possible.
So here is a way to hardware
accelerate elements.
You can do what we call the null
transform hack, null z transform hack.
So transform: translateZ 0; back-face
visibility: hidden Perspective 1000px.
That will hardware accelerate
that element in the browser.
If you wanna read more about those you
can check out these two resources.
I wrote one of them and
Paul Louis wrote the other.
So if we move one thing
with transforms and
one thing without,
if we look at this in the browser,
first you can kind of see one of them
jittering across and one of them not.
And if we go over here and
we go More Tools, and
we go Rendering, we bring this up and
we say Paint Flashing.
You can notice that one of them
has a little green rectangle and
the other one doesn't.
This one is not hardware accelerated,
and this one is.
So anything that's not
hardware accelerated, it,
once you to turn on that paint flashing,
will start alerting you.
Chrome does not properly hardware
accelerate a lot of SVG Dom nodes, so
don't be too scared if you see that.
It is hardware accelerated in Firefox,
though, so you shouldn't pull
those things off, and again I'm trying
get them to hardware accelerate that.
So maybe some day,
you'll write this pen, and
all of a sudden it will
be hardware accelerated.
So keep doing those things.
But also the nice thing about
GreenSock is they already
have that hardware acceleration for
you under the hood.
They're gonna assume if
you're using GreenSock,
you probably want all that stuff.
And you can unset that with a flag, but
I've never really needed to unset that.
If you wanna read more
about all of these things,
there's also a case study about Netflix,
and the source is Wealthfront.
And these are kind of CSS properties, and
the things that it causes,
these are CSS triggers.
You can see, opacity and transform does
not cause layout and paint retriggers.
If you're kind of bummed out, cuz that
seems like not a lot of properties to
animate, transforms are really powerful.
There's tons of stuff in transforms.
You can move things, you can skew things,
you can scale things.
All of the pens that you see today,
all of these crazy things that we're
gonna do, are all done with transforms.
So it doesn't really limit you that much.
Okay, so work flow, why would I
use GreenSock just for workflow?
Well, let's say you have a few
different key frame animations and
you have things at different percentages.
And let's say there's a burst
at 60% of one animation and
then 60% of another animation,
two different elements.
Well, what if the timing of something
that came way, way before it changes?
You could adjust the percentages and
recalculate both of those,
or you can try to keep
them both in lockstep.
But eventually what's gonna happen is,
you're gonna have to rewrite all of
the animation code that came before it.
Because the only way to chain CSS
animation is by making the greater and
greater delay.
And it's not that legible.
It's not that legible to make
all of those key frames.
They're applied in a different area
than you're applying the animation.
So sometimes in your code, you'll find
if you do like a really crazy animation,
they're kind of floating
away from each other.
It's like where did that key frame go?
Is it down here?
So you're kind of like
thinking about it and
then applying it in two different places,
so as it gets more complicated and
your code gets longer,
it gets a little bit more stringy.
>> Sarah Drasner: There’s also
a stacking order for CSS transforms so
lets say you want a bunch of
things to happen at once.
You wanna scale something,
you wanna rotate something.
There’s basically one thing
that will happen at a time.
Unless, there's like two
ways of solving this.
One is to wrap subsequent divs or
groups around the thing, and
animate those all separately,
which is a lot of mark up and gunk.
Or you can find the intermediary
values of each piece in
the middle of the other
pieces to apply them.
Yeah, that's the work
the computer should be doing.
That's not stuff that you wanna be doing.
Whereas GreenSock, it doesn't matter.
You can just apply them,
GreenSock will figure out the matrix
transform under the hood and
just do it for you.
So that can be really nice.
So there's really great features,
simple syntax.
I should mention I'm not paid by them or
something.
I don't work for them,
I'm not like selling you their product.
I just am an animator who found
a tool that they really like.
I should just say that out of the gate.
You can use whatever tool you want,
I just really like this tool a lot and
it has a lot of features.
Simply syntax, Timelines,
Nested Timelines,
Draggable, DrawSVG, Stagger, MorphSVG.
So I mentioned that you can
do a lot with transforms.
This whole pen is just a bunch
of transforms over and
over again applied to different elements.
And I'm using a timeline, so if I wanna
change one thing, it doesn't affect
everything else, it just gets ordered
in time and that's totally fine.
And I can reuse pieces of
the animation as well, cool.
>> Sarah Drasner: It solves some
cross browser inconsistencies.
Some of you probably already
found some of these.
You did, I think.
[LAUGH] Some of the transform origin
issues that you'll encounter get kind of
squirrelly.
Old IE does not support
CSS transforms at all.
Edge does, and later browsers,
Microsoft browsers.
Safari zoomed, this got solved and
then like unsolved and
I think it's solved again,
sometimes it comes back.
None of these are an issue.
You can get these kind of transforms and
rotations working with GreenSock
back to old IE9, so
even old IE will work with GreenSock.
And this is my favorite one.
Actually Mark back in the day showed a pen
that showed the problem with stacking
different transforms.
So this is what GreenSock does.
I should mention that
CodePen's having this issue,
where inside an embed,
the transform is getting weird.
So transform left top,
the red is what the spec thinks it wants.
So real spec behavior,
the spec that they wrote,
everybody was like, yes,
this sounds good, is the red one.
What, like what?
[LAUGH] That is not great.
But the green one, the way that GreenSock
compensates, and it's like, you know what?
I assume what you mean is
that you want this to happen.
So stuff like this, if it's not working
correctly, can really ruin your time.
I was mentioning to someone if
I'm not able to use GreenSock and
I have to use CSS animations for
a really long,
complicated client project
I will bill extra hours.
I'll say, it's gonna take me X amount
longer because I have to compensate for
all these strange idiosyncrasies.